It's true that once you have.
You have a database to be used, so that's.
I'm in a bit of a temptation to try to
use it,
but actually it's not good because it it
can break the whole system.
So the first thing that we will do when
we try,
when we work with this is to create a new
database.
And if you remember last time we have
designed the medical system with the
appointments etcetera.
So now we will try to implement it within
the database.
And This is why I'm creating a new one.
Just a matter of organization regarding
the organization of your work here.
Um.
You have sore strategies.
But you can see here that you have a
scripts folder here in the.
In the in the files tab you have a
scripts folder.
This is where we will create.
All of our architecture to work.
So here I will create a folder named
medical system.
It's actually to reflect the database
name that I just created.
Thanks to this strategy,
we know exactly what scripts will be for
what database.
And here usually we have 2-3 very
characteristic files, but the first one.
Should be.
The DDL.
OK, so bonjour.
This DDL is actually.
Do you remember what DDL means from what
we have seen last time?
Data definition language.
Data definition language is actually.
The way you will create the data
structure so that you can you can fill
data in the in the proper way in the
database. OK, so that's mandatory.
Of course this is where we will create
all the tables for instance.
3.
So in the DDL as you can see here I have
a known.
In front of the name. This is not good.
This means that the script is not
connected to any database.
In order to resolve that issue,
you can click on NA here, pick localhost.
Click on NA here and pick the right
database name.
So whatever you will do now is will
impact only the medical system database.
Understood. OK,
that's very important because.
Otherwise you may just face some issues
and the error messages are not so
explicit, so you may be a bit in trouble,
so be careful in order to have.
The script that executes correctly.
You need to have the teach the connection
here which is done and the chosen
database which is here.
Understood.
OK.
From where?
The scripts. Yeah, let's do it once again.
Let's create a new file.
You see that I'm creating a file from
here. OK,
I'm renaming this file because script dot
SQL is not so obvious.
Imagine in two weeks.
You'll have scrit 1, scrit 2, et cetera,
so better to name it from the beginning
and what we can do is.
To simulate that we have another DDL to
import,
you see at the beginning it's known.
Just click here to pick the connection
that you have set up and click here to
pick the database name that you want to
work on.
In case you don't do, what will happen?
Maybe you should install Windows?
No, Marie's the same. Same too.
OK,
if you that's not look so much at the
script here because I will change it very
soon,
but only to to run an exec something here
you see that if you try to run an SQL.
Query without having selected the
connections and then you will have this
error message. OK so.
Remember it because if you see that error
again,
it means that you that you have
misconfigured the script.
Of course I will just now delete.
Them.
To keep on my DDL.
If I remember well last time.
We did something like this.
I mean.
This was.
The diagram we did last time, OK,
and what was missing aarently was to fill.
To fill the the the boxes and as well to
handle the case of the payments and the
insurances.
Because here we can see that the payment
is done for one patient and it is done by
one insurance at the same time.
So that's not good.
So have you found a solution?
You have time to think about it.
A new what? A new party? Yes,
I that was what I thought. A new what?
The new party. So my insurance.
Was it? I can be doing that, yes,
but then you will have the same issue.
With that middle man toward patients or
insurance, the the the problem was.
That at some point if we need to make a
payment,
that the payment should be made by either
the patient or the insurance.
We can have here at the same time both.
You see,
so if you add something in the middle,
it means that this middle thing will have
the same issue because it will be
potentially linked to one patient and one
insurance at the same time.
OK.
So it's not bad,
but it means that it's a source of of
problems.
It's a source of bug because you will
have potentially two things,
fields as you expected one only.
So the the first thing that we can try.
Is to have something like this.
Which means that the payments could be
made by a patient and could be made by
insurance,
but in that case it's not good as well
because we have here potentially none of
them.
You see beforehand it was both.
Now we have known in the worst case.
So the question is, how do we solve it?
It's a bit tricky actually,
because the answer is not in the diagram.
The answer is more with the data you will
have. I give you the solution.
You will tell me. I give you a solution.
You will tell me what you like,
what you think about it.
So let's connect the payments to always.
To the insurances.
O We'll remove it.
From here.
And here the payment is always made by an
insurance which is not so valid because
actually we say it in the specification
that the patient can can pay some from
time to time.
Yes, but we will add a comment here if.
Patient has no insurance.
It is.
Having by default.
The insurance.
No.
Insurance.
You see so the patient.
Always have an insurance.
OK.
And if the payment is made by the
insurance, no insurance, it means that.
It is the patient to face.
Understood.
It's very common actually to find that
kind of trick because it's not possible
to make an if else at the diagram level,
at the conception level,
because here we are talking about
structure.
It's either the structure is here or it's
not here, but there's no if else.
You see the point.
So here we find a trick but at the data
level.
And of course at the diagram level,
because now that we have solved that
issue of the payments not connected to
the patient directly,
we can connect all the payments to the
insurance and then the insurance itself
is connected.
To the patients, of course.
Here it means that the patient always
have an insurance. Always.
It's either no insurance or a real
insurance company. Understood.
Yes.
What if?
OK.
See.
This is what we had before,
but actually it was a source of problem.
Why is that?
Because at some point the payment could
be made by the two of them.
You see on the line I should have in the
previous model which was mandatory to
have a link to the patient and a link to
the insurance,
but we don't know who is doing the
payment.
At the end because it's connected to both.
So after that we can have a payment type,
patient, etc.
But actually this is a very common trick
as well and what is good is that the only
link that you have from the payments.
Is toward the insurance,
so it reduces a bit the complexity as
well, yeah.
Good, so.
Let's keep with that. I would like you.
Maybe it was not very clear at the end of
the of the session last time,
but normally we should have.
You should have filled the boxes with
some attributes. Did you do?
Do that. Yeah. OK, good.
So let's have a look to what you did.
Let me know what you had in the what you
have done in the doctors.
True.
Mhm.
Thank you.
Um.
OK.
Then.
The name.
What's the type? Let's put text.
OK.
And spit.
OK.
OK, what about the appointments?
OK.
What's the type here?
A joke?
Updates.
Dates.
What's state or date and time?
Date. OK. If it is date,
then we need to have the time somewhere.
But we need to have the time before, no?
We can use timestamp as well.
In that case it's date time.
Here we can have date,
date time or timestamp.
It's it's possible to have.
Everything here OK.
The the duration as well is important.
Let's express it in minutes, OK?
And then I heard several other things
patient ID.
OK.
So.
How do I know?
Yes.
How do I know the type of doctor the app
doc ID here FK? Why is that int?
Exact.
So this is the correspondence key toward
this key.
So This is why it is mandatory to have
the same type. OK and of course.
On the patients I have to have here,
we have not yet defined a patient,
but here it creates a constraint that the
patient's ID should be itself an int.
OK, let's go for a patience.
But ID int which will be the K.
Hmm.
K.
Let's we could have way more details,
but it's OK for now.
Phone number, yes.
OK.
Uh, no.
No, we never start the age.
Why is that?
It changes every every year.
You have to update the age.
That's not bad. That's not good.
What we can do is to record the age when
it is an history data.
So for instance if you it's the I don't
know.
Seen the records of the of the
appointments that we receive a patient of,
I don't know, 39 years old, et cetera,
et cetera.
So this is interesting to to save the age
at this moment,
but if this is like an identity.
Source.
It's important to keep the date of birth.
Phone number.
OK, let's keep it like this.
The insurance ID. Yeah,
that could be interesting to to have as
well. The insurance ID.
What will be the type here int FK?
OK, good.
Just a very quick question,
why don't we put the reference the link?
Between insurance and patients on the
insurance site.
Why?
Don't we do the reverse,
meaning that we have the insurance that
holds a patient's ID?
Yes, OK,
but we still we could still store some
some field.
Exactly.
An entrance can have many patients,
which means that it's not possible to
store a single cell. If you remember,
we say that it was one value pair
intersection row column if I have more
than one value for one attribute.
It means that we are not enforcing the
normal form, so that's not good.
So that's why you will have when you have
links like this,
the position of where we store the link
information.
Is a bit forced.
It's forced where we have maximum one in
terms of number of instances connected.
So one appointment is connected to
exactly 1 doctor.
That means that the appointment will
store the reference. Now here we have.
Another case.
Where bills and appointments?
Have a one one relationship.
So the question is where do we start the
reference?
In both.
Yes, but that would create duplications,
no?
I think we can keep with one.
The question is where in the bill or in
the appointments?
The question is where do we store the
reference from bill to appointment or
from appointment to bill?
But.
From appointment to bill. OK,
what happens when we have an appointment?
You create an appointment OK and then
that here it means that if you store on
the appointment site,
the appointments needs to know the bill.
So the bill has to be created and then
update the appointment,
which is I think a bit heavy.
I think in my opinion what is more
logical is that the appointment exists
and then later we can create the bill
because if we don't do that then it means
that we need to create the bill 1st and
then to create the appointment and to set
up the reference to the bill.
You see,
so it's more logical in the workflow,
but maybe it's not the case. I don't,
I don't know. In reality,
I have to ask what's the best in terms of
workflow,
because here it's not so precise.
So that we can take a fixed decision like
this.
OK, so here we'll have.
The bill ID.
Hints PK What can be in the bill?
Yeah, months, of course.
OK,
and we'll have the reference to
appointments.
OK, yeah.
So what we have status, status.
Actually we can determine the status if
we see no payments as attached to it. OK,
so we can query in the database a bit
later.
We will do something like select
everything from payments where bill ID
equal something and then if we see
nothing then it means that the bill ID in
question.
He's outstanding. OK, excuse me. Yes,
of course you can see that the payments
here has a reference to the bill, so.
If I take an example here.
Payments.
They ID.
It's a.
Bait.
It's right.
Uh, I want.
Decimal. And here pay a bill. I need FK.
Of course.
Here we have to link to the entrance as
well.
Pay insurance.
OK.
And now the insurance.
Inside the int's name.
Text.
That's it.
Here we have our database.
You see that once you have the links,
it's way easier to determine where to
store things because because you have
already the answer.
Behind between the lines you you can see
the answer of where to put extra
attributes to start the links.
If you don't,
if you don't do that a first,
then you will ask. Always ask yourself.
In what direction should I store the link
etcetera.
So I repeat on the answer the the process
to that kind of exam exercise sorry is
you will first design the boxes as we did.
Identify the entities,
then find the relationships between the
boxes.
And then fill the attributes,
knowing that the attributes are
conditioned by the links that you have on
the diagram. OK,
so now the big goal is to to implement
that.
Into the database.
We are very close because now we have the
structure,
we have a good knowledge of the links
between the entities.
So the only remaining effort to create a
real database from that concept is to
switch to DDL.
Just a first point here if you're a bit
lazy.
Are you lazy?
You're lazy.
That's bad.
Yes.
That's bad, but sometimes good to be lazy.
OK.
OK, I'm sure you had the idea already.
So let's let's make it it's work and
we'll compare later. Just one notice,
one warning. When you use Genai,
it's it suppresses the learning process.
If you don't pay attention,
you will not learn.
So if for new things and I I just notice
it for me as well.
For new things that I do with Jain AI,
I don't learn new things.
I'm faster to do things.
Some things,
but I'm not learning new things.
And for some of you who are not already
trained with databases,
I think this is a pitfall because.
Actually the goal is that you can manage
this without the AI.
So if you don't learn what will remain
after this semester, I don't know. OK,
the exam is made so that normally you
cannot use Gen. AI. OK, so.
Genera will not be allowed during the
exam,
even if I know that some of you will try.
If you try,
it will be 0 and disciplinary cancel
because it's against the rules of the
exam.
We are in first semester, so we should.
Normally.
Not use JAI in the first semester for any
task to check the the the skills of our
students. OK,
so you see here you have the actually the
world DL.
So do.
Just to show you that once you have done
the effort of doing your ear diagram.
This is your added value, actually,
because this is what the general can't do
now.
More or less cannot do because what is
your ability is to take some
specifications from human language,
understand them with the person
representing the users,
and then convert them.
Into the diagram that we have made.
OK, O your added value is there.
It's not in the way that you write SQL
because tools like this can write SQL.
What you can also capitalize on is once
you know how to write SQL,
is that you don't ask yourself how to do
things. It's already as a reflex for you.
So that means that even without any tool.
You can still do your job.
I I know some customers where remote
tools,
online tools are not accessible like
banks, insurances. They don't have Gemini,
they don't have ChatGPT,
they don't have nothing.
So it's you and the database.
So that's where it's interesting as well
to still have SQL skills. But honestly,
if you want to create your startup,
it's not where you should spend some time,
not where I mean creating SQL queries.
It's not where you make value, OK,
because you can have those tools that do
it for you, but the concepts.
Really, it's where you have value.
Now it's because you have this idea of
chaining the data like this that
corresponds to a workflow from a customer
that you need to implement as an
application.
Where this is where you will make,
you will create value. OK,
so just after that warning about Gen. AI,
let's try to create things ourself.
You see in the learning process,
copy pasting is also a bad.
Reflex. OK, so even if you don't use JDPT,
if you stack stack overflow of things
with pre-made things, it's not good.
So let's try to create.
The table duck toes.
And you will see how well it helps to
have this text base stuff.
Because it's nearly one to one here.
We the Microsoft SVM don't mention stuff.
OK.
Yeah, OK.
Actually here auto increment is not
necessary for this specific exercise,
but you can do it in two ways.
Either you want to be,
you want it to be part of the structure
so that you create.
The auto increments directive at the same
time as your column or you can alter the
column later to add the auto increments
flag.
I think even you will have to drop the
column and to recreate the column.
If you if you made a mistake and then
copy all the previous values into this
new column.
We can have auto increment defined like
this for now.
What is important is that you can also
see here that we create a primary key.
Honestly, I'm not a fond.
I'm not fond of create making the primary
key.
Definition here. Why is that?
Because.
Actually when you have.
The table structure like this, it's good,
but what counts?
It's not really the constraints that you
have.
Of course it will count for the
applications which is behind.
The application will require some unique
values etc.
So that's important and it has the
primary key, but it's.
Even more important to have the data
themselves,
and sometimes when you import data you
have errors in the data with duplicates
primary keys. OK,
so I prefer to have a database which is
imported with duplicate primary keys than
no data at all.
OK,
This is why usually what I favor in terms
of approach is that minimal data
structure.
Then.
That's our import.
And then?
Constraint creation.
OK, so if you do like this,
you you are sure you will have all your
data, even if they are a bit messy,
because potentially you have no foreign
foreign keys,
you have some missing primary keys,
etcetera,
due to the fact you have faults in the
data.
But at least you have your data.
What counts for you? You are what?
What's what's AC? OK,
so in AC it's good because we are a bit
balanced in data domains like AIS or DSA.
They would prefer to have at all price
the data and they don't care about the
constraint because.
Of course what counts for them is the raw
data to do their training. OK,
but for us what counts is to have the
data and to have them in a good format
because we will be responsible of taking
those data to display them in the
application.
And back saving the the data in the right
format so that the next cycle will be
operational as well,
but if you have to make a trade off.
I mean in production what counts is to
have the data,
because if you have bad constraints,
if you have bad things,
it's bad to say that,
but it's preferable that the user can
save the data at all price.
Than to to have perfect model with
perfect constraint application.
OK you you will be there in the next step
to fix all the issues.
OK.
I don't wish you that because of course
that's very painful and and stressful
because when you work in production
system with bad model, bad database model,
you will suffer a lot.
To understand what happens and to make
sure that by doing your fix you do not
remove some critical data or you do not
alter some critical data that the user
will need in the in his usage.
OK, so but this is what we can do.
We can create the tables,
then importing the data and then creating
the constraints so that you are sure that
at least you have all your data.
So the minimal that create table order
that will take the constraints that we
have here is the not the constraint,
but the definition that we have here is
this one.
If I want to play it to to apply it on
the database, I click on the play button,
the play orange button here,
which is here normally in the medical
system.
You should see a table.
It's not the case here,
but it's because you need to refresh.
So take the reflex to have the the
refresh here whenever you do a create
table statement.
Otherwise you may think that.
The order has not been ***** correctly,
but it is now here.
If you want you can you have an
interesting view which is the view
diagram.
The view diagram will normally look like
this at the end of the DDL creation,
the DDL imports OK.
So just for fun.
I will send this to you.
And I would like you to try execute this
into your system and once it works you
can do the rest of the CREATE TABLE
statements.
Uh, with the rest of the entities, OK.
But suggest that you have first the MySQL
that runs and you'll have your.
See.
Yeah, I.
Uh.
Yeah, it's good.
So you have to have then into the
database you need to create a new
database. Yeah, refresh.
Yeah.
Are you students here? Yes.
Who is not yet added to the team as well.
OK.
Maybe.
E like this.
Uh, this one.
And what's your name?
Who's?
I just send you all because.
Like this?
If you.
Uh, you as well.
Hmm.
M here.
This one.
Next ones will be 10 euro per people, OK?
It's.
2.
My support. Here we work with my support.
Maybe this I should share with you.
I did not share the the whole diagram.
That would help of course.
OK.
Yes.
As you said,
which is the the one which is the most
always in MySQL PostgreSQL.
And what close in the on some definitions?
We create the the medical system set up.
Let me show you.
It.
Yes.
OK.
She.
So.
Yeah.
So.
OK.
And.
OK.
OK, so we can do.
I will show the solution for as well.
So it's always.
Um, once you you see once you have the.
Where is my editor.
Once you have this actually you are very
close to have a create table statement
because here you have you have only to to
create table then the name of the table
instead of curly bracket it's round
bracket it's parenthesis.
And then you have all the types,
et cetera, that is even a bit compatible.
O here we have a ID.
We have.
Dates.
Please do me a favour.
Never store dates under the string format
under voucher format.
It's the worst idea you could have to
represent a date because we have very
convenient dates.
Date, time or time stamp?
Which is all which are all better than
string. Why is that?
Because here you if you do string then
you are limiting yourself to use symbolic
calculation.
So you'll have to do within your query
some processing to convert a string to a
date and then to do the same thing.
As you could have done it from the from
the start,
I don't know why people are keep are
keeping managing the dates with string.
For me it's it's an unknown.
You.
The deep.
So.
The dates and we set the date because
when you created like is the current it's
it's not by default. It's not by default.
Maybe we have a way,
but honestly I don't know.
I never.
I never use that at the database level.
'Cause normally, yeah, but honestly,
I've never used that, so I cannot tell.
Hop uh.
What we said duration means up.
OK, but ID.
have the ID.
OK.
Then.
Createable patience.
Uh, Teji.
Yeah.
But name.
Yeah.
Yes.
And we have said that we had a fat.
Ins.
ID which will be the reference to the to
the entrance. OK,
for now let's just play with those 3
tables.
Yes.
No.
Yeah, yeah, sure, sure.
It's it's easier actually here this
convention.
You will see it a lot in all systems
because they did not have at that time.
They did not have any code completion IDE
like what we have. OK,
why do we have do I have this?
First of all that visually when I write
the query you are not mixed between the
different fields,
so it's a bit for you and if you take the
code.
Outside of any ID,
it will be as well a bit easier to to
read,
but it's true once you are start you have
started your project.
If you are sure that you have everything
modern,
go with what you want in terms of naming
convention or apply the ones.
That you have from from your company,
because some companies have have as well
their own way to to to name the the
columns. OK,
but there's no constraint here.
OK, so let's create everything.
I'm happy about what I see here,
so I would like to import everything.
How do I do?
I do not click on the play button here if
I want to execute everything.
What I will do, I will execute.
As a script here,
here it says that we have an error that's
normal because it says that table doctors
already exist. So here.
I will have to select and.
Execute a script refresh.
And now we should have doctors and
patients.
In the diagram you see that we have now
the different entities represented,
but they are not linked yet.
It's normal because we have not set up
the primary keys nor the foreign keys.
So let me share with you.
Yeah.
So just.
In terms of constraints.
Here you see we are not we are using the
Alter statement, the Alter verb.
What do we alter the table doctors to add
a constraint doc PK?
Actually this name is is not mandatory in
MySQL.
It would be mandatory in PostgreSQL and
probably as well in MSSQL even if I don't
know it well.
So usually we add the constraint name
even if it's not mandatory,
the primary key.
Constraints and this is the target field,
so this points to this doc ID.
Let's just see what's the effect.
You see that now the primary key appears
in the bolds.
OK, let's have a look to the seconds.
Let's take only the three first lines.
Altera table appointments add the
constraint called FK doc.
The foreign key will apply on app doc ID
and it will target the doctors.
Docker ID. So here what I'm saying,
I'm saying that this value and this value
should be the same OK where the when
there's a link.
I'm playing this. I'm refreshing.
And here you see that there's a link now
between the two tables.
You can change the notation as well to
have to have crew foot so that it's
closer to what we know already.
If we zoom a little bit here it says
appointments to doctors.
Here you can see that it's 01.
So why it's 01?
Because here we have not said that this.
Uh, sorry, this cannot be null.
So if we had made not null here as a
second as a complementary constraint,
it forces this to be not null and so the
the sign here will be one.
OK.
So what is important here to understand
is how to set up the primary key and the
foreign key. Playing on that,
I would like you to create the remaining.
Links that exist between tables that are
here,
so the appointments and patients for
instance,
but you can play a little bit as well on
the whole system if you have implemented
all the tables.
No
OK.
So I repeat.
The slides try to apply set up the
primary keys everywhere and the foreign
keys when it is.
Based on this syntax example.
Do you want me to to to explain again the
structure of this of those alter
statements or is that OK?
We modify the table to other constraints,
then the name of the constraint,
then the type of the constraint,
and then the affected fields.
You see that here it expects potentially
more than one field.
So it means that the primary key would be
composed of several fields,
several attributes.
OK.
I can see that maybe you need some rest.
So let's do a small break of 5-10 minutes
just to relax a little bit.
Take some hair, take a coffee,
take some vitamins.
And then let's raise your.
OK.
It's needed.
No.
OK, yeah, thanks. I don't.
It doesn't mean.
So we have to install the server and then
we'll say.
So today's for today's.
OK.
It only subject absolutely positive.
Or perhaps.
Do you know the question? That's answered.
You know, I have a question.
OK.
Don't worry about it.
This is what we have to do.
I'm sorry.
OK.
Uh.
OK.
It.
Right.
Mm.
Yeah.
So like in the.
OK.
Not sure.
It depends.
Not my SPS.
So.
Yeah, this is.
Yeah, excellent.
OK.
Yes.
It.
So.
Oh.
Mm.
So.
Thank you. If you please don't,
you should.
So your experts now in create table
statements and alter table statements.
It.
D,.
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you.
I don't know the security.
Yeah.
What I feel very.
Music.
Just.
Yeah.
Mhm.
OK, so if I I do the same here,
I will do a alter table.
Patience.
That's PK.
That's ID.
So what I said just before the break,
you can have multiple fields included in
the primary key. So those fields,
the combination should be unique to form
the primary key. Understood.
What it could be the case for instance
for the appointments if you decide now
the that the appointment ID is not the
the primary key anymore,
but the this is the combination of date
time.
Patient and doctor that makes an
appointment unique.
You could make those four fees part of
the primary key.
What's the bad thing if you do that?
The more you have combined fields,
the more it is duplicating data,
because when you want to reference an
instance of that entity,
you need to transport the three
information as well.
Alterate table appointments.
Add constraints.
Up PK.
Primary key.
App ID.
Alter table. Then we can create another.
One like this.
Be careful when you copy paste.
It's now FK paths.
Up that ID.
But I did.
From patients.
Here this is typical error when you try
to do the foreign key before the primary
key.
Here the target does not is not
everything exist in the structure,
but the target is not referenced as the
primary key. OK,
so this is what you have to do first.
You had to create the primary key in
patients and then to add the appointments
foreign key.
So the foreign key needs to reference a
primary key, otherwise it will fail.
I think that we have to.
The only thing remaining is that's
primary key we can refresh.
And now you see that we have links that
looks like what we have, yes.
Yes.
For example, like in table patients,
so the before HP that links to insurance
and pay them payments.
So if we have like all that people
patients not constraints.
You can have.
You can have only one constraint name.
The same constraint name can be used only.
Once for for one table,
but after that you can use if you have
FKI don't know FK123 for instance.
It can be used across all the tables in
the database the same name.
Is that answering your question? Yeah.
The the good thing I what I like about
this view is that it's like a navigation
map.
Through the data,
once you are discovering the database,
I like to see this.
Let's wait.
I think before giving database lectures I
should give whispering lectures.
Because actually when you speak like
normal at normal loud level to your
colleagues, if everybody does that,
I cannot speak anymore. OK,
so just as a distinction,
this is a normal.
Voice level and this is the whisper level.
And if you speak like this,
it's OK for me. Do you understand?
OK,
so now if you need to speak to your
colleague,
it's OK because it's a practical domain,
so it's normal to have questions,
etcetera.
It's more recommended to listen to the
teacher when he's talking,
but I'm not your dad.
You do what you want,
but just do not bother me, just whisper.
OK,
when you load the database and you don't
know at all what is inside,
these kinds of map of diagram allows you
to navigate through the data and even
when you want to write your query.
For instance,
if you want to know because here we have
connections between patients, data,
appointments, data and doctors.
So here if you ask yourself what's making
the link between doctors and appointments,
it's a bit obvious because this is.
We'll set up.
The the word database links, etcetera.
But when it's not you,
it's not maybe obvious.
You can just click on the link and know
exactly what is doing the relationship.
OK, so that's very for me,
that's very interesting,
very powerful in terms of knowledge.
Information gives.
Is that OK on the principle of primary
key foreign key?
You see what what is the the point?
You see how to use it.
It's mandatory to to have this mastered
because in the next exercises we'll use
that principle to query data from
different tables and if you don't
understand the link.
How he set up the link,
you will not be able to fetch anything.
OK.
Let's just keep the rest of our extra
exercises,
so let's skip them because I'm sure we
will not have time to to go through it.
Let's switch to lecture 3.
So go to lecture 3.
And we will continue our journey to set
up a real database and this time what
we'll focus on will be.
The EML Data manipulation language.
What is this? We have the data structure.
We have links between those data
structures.
Now we are ready to welcome data,
real data top and the first.
Elements.
That we can see here is the insert into.
Here I've resented the inset into so that
it looks like a table already.
Here this is a table that we don't know.
It's a vicinity's table.
Apparently it's composed of ID, name,
member cost, etcetera,
and it has some values.
OK,
and here for whatever column I'm
describing,
I have a corresponding attribute,
a column value to set up for this rule.
So here it's describing the insertion of
one rule within.
The facilities table.
OK.
Be careful when you insert things into a
database.
Especially when you want to do some tests.
You can pollute the database by mistake.
It happened to my manager once.
It was even worse.
He deleted some things from the database.
Just hopefully it was not production,
it was test database,
but some people were not able to work for
at least half a day.
So nobody was happy as he was the manager.
We could not complain,
but actually the we're all penalized by
this mistake.
So be careful when you do modification
whenever you do insert, update, delete.
Insert is a bit less critical than update
and delete,
but the rest of the update and delete are
really critical.
If you do a bad update or bad delete,
you can mess up the whole database. OK,
so the structures like like this insert
into the table name.
The column list and the values.
Now the update the structure is a bit
different.
It's not update from or update into its
update the table name.
Then we do the list of modification we
want to apply here.
Update the table facilities set.
Do this modification.
You can have a list of modifications here
separated by comma where and then you
give here the condition that all the rows
you want to update should match.
Is that a good idea how it is shown here?
Is that a good way to do to prepare an
update?
3.
No why we should update by ID.
That's a very good remark.
We should update by ID because if by
mistake we have several swimming pool
entries in the facilities,
we'll update all of them.
So the best is to have two levels of
query. First of all,
we need to select the rules we want to to
make sure that the rules we want to
update are the ones we really want to
date and then.
Once we have identified those rules,
we need to do the update just.
Before all updates do a dump or at the
minimum do a select with the same where
clause and save it somewhere. Why is that?
Because if you do a bad update.
Once you have updated, it's updated,
so you cannot roll back.
OK and update means that if by mistake
you have targeted way more rules than
what is expected,
you you will have potentially lost some
data.
You have heard that data is the new gold
or the new oil. OK,
so you don't want to lose data.
OK, same for delete.
This time it's delete from facilities
where with the same kind of where clause.
Here it's not a good strategy.
Preferably you will have targeted some
precise IDs,
some precise IDs corresponding to primary
keys to know what rows you want to delete
and.
Here.
The delete query should be.
Before you alley the delete query,
you do a select to make sure that you
have a dum of all the rows that you are
about to delete.
Delete this app is normally very few used
in real applications. Do you know why?
Yeah,
we don't delete anything sometimes
because the lot company are working.
We just change the idea exactly.
We we have a principle of data retention.
Here in France,
for the the general proposed data,
not the personal data,
but all the rest of the business data,
we should keep them as for three years.
OK, in others,
I don't know if there's a legal procedure
or whatever, whatever.
We can have access to the data for three
years. So delete is very normally very.
In few cases we do delete, but it's only.
Usually to correct a bad insert or to
delete a configuration thing.
But I mean in terms of business data,
we do not use delete,
we use a flag to say active,
not active or deleted,
not deleted or historized.
Archived or whatever,
which means that the data is not visible
anymore,
but it's still here in the database, yes.
Yes, it is still here. Yeah, true.
OK.
Yes, exactly. So actually for GDPR,
you mean? Yes.
So we have the general data protection
rule from Europe here of course,
but this is a different process.
We have audits, regular audits normally,
where we have the list of all the
personal flagged data that we have to
process particularly to make sure that we
do not.
Retain those data more than what is
allowed. OK, but usually in business,
I mean in business,
regular business applications,
we are not so much concerned because by
the fact the user uses the service.
Through a professional accounts we are
already in the GDPR enforcement because
normally the the professional accounts
that he's using is already I I don't.
Know how to say that,
but managing the GDPR constraints. OK,
so it's it's good to to have this in mind
because if you do your own software then
you will have to ask yourself what is
GDPR in my software, what not,
what is not.
But if you use business to business.
Applications,
which is the probably where you will work
in your during your internship.
You have less questions like this to ask
yourself, but yes,
just to let you know that delete is
normally not so so much used usually.
So we have seen insert, update, delete.
Now we have to.
Check for the select select what select
some columns from a table and then we can
filter the result thanks to the where
clause.
The where clause that we have already
seen where if you remember name equals
swimming pool. We have seen that in the.
In the update and delete statements so we
can use the WHERE clause as well in
SELECT to filter data and.
To train a little bit,
we will use the clubdata database which
is taken from the gexercisescom.
Which is here I strongly advise.
It's not even an advice,
it's even somewhat mandatory to train and
to do all the exercises before the exam
before,
because the exam is based on the same
principle. Let me show you.
How it works on this website.
It's a training.
It's an SQL training website.
I've clicked on the basic exercises here,
retrieve everything from a table.
Why is that important that you do it
before the exam?
Because I will use exactly.
The same kind of layout for your exam.
What will what means that you will have a
question?
You will have the expected results and by
your query you should match the expected
results.
Understood.
So what comes for me is the query,
not the result.
The query you use to match the expected
results. So it will be like this.
I ask a question,
I ask the I sent a screenshot of the
expected results and you have.
By your query to match the expected
result. Here it select.
Star from CD dot facilities.
You see you have a green check because
you match exactly what is expected. OK,
and more important for me and why is this
website very good?
You have an explanation. OK,
so even if you don't manage a query,
you can still have a look to the solution.
And have the idea of why you failed and
how you could fix what you have tried to
make it work. OK,
so that's very precious to me.
This is why we will not go further here
together,
because the goal is that you use that.
At home while preparing the exam to just
make sure you have the the SQL skills.
The database is good still.
But it's good only for me to to show you
how to load yet another database,
this time from a full dum O.
Let's go back to.
Lecture 3.
So at slide seven you have the
opportunity to download the club data.
This club data has been made for
PostgreSQL and here we are working with
MySQL.
So this is not automatically compatible.
We need to do some few adjustments here
to save some time I've already.
Prepare those adjustments.
And.
You can load them directly from here just
to let you know what kind of adjustment I
did.
I removed all the create key master
because it is not interesting for us in
the booking.
Here we have to modify this because it's
not known from my SQL.
MySQL does not know about time zones,
so we need to rim to reduce it to
timestamp. OK and the same here.
Now the rest is about.
The altar table statements.
And MySQL does not know about only. OK,
why only?
Because here we could alter several
tables at the same time.
Here the only fixes to one table. Wow.
Oh, OK, next course.
Sometimes it happens you you're losing,
but sometimes people come 15 minutes
before the end and expect to be set as
present.
Just stay at home in that case.
OK, so if we needed to fix that,
we should as well remove this only
keyword which is not known by MySQL.
But you see that the the majority of the
instructions are visible. OK,
so the preparation that I did here.
I can walk directly if I'm not wrong.
Uh, no. OK,
so we need to do it once again. Sorry. OK,
let's remove the only.
Hmm.
Let me try to load it.
O How do we do here?
In order to implement it,
I go back to the Beaver. I'm closing.
I'm saving and closing everything here.
OK,
I'm creating a new database and this will
be the club.
Data database.
I'm instantly creating a new folder LUB
data.
And here I do not have the DDL,
the insert data and the constraints.
I have everything all at once in the
single file, so I will create a new.
File called dump.
Yeah.
Yep.
You see that here I have the known
symptom. What should I do?
Pick the connection.
Pick.
The database and click on Execute QL
script.
You should have normally 12,
200 rows approximately to be updated.
Let's have a look to the diagram.
OK, we have this.
If we switch to the close foot notation,
we have this diagram. OK,
so this is what you should get once you
have dumped everything.
Let me share this with you now.
So don't consider what I've sent here.
Hmm.
And take this one.
OK,
so you run this and then what is cool now?
At least what I find cool myself.
Hope it will be the same for you is that
we have the same database than in the
pgexercises.
com but this time on our local machine
and you understand here what I want is
that I want you to be familiar and
comfortable with data loading but as well
with data querying on your system.
So I will create a new script.
Which will be cold here.
That's up.
Stop.
Extraction.
And you see here it's the known symptom
once again, so I'm picking the.
The connection the database and now I can
do select star.
From facilities.
And I see the data resents in the
database.
So if you want to practice,
you can do as well on your computer. OK,
so do this this example to make sure you
will be able to load from SQL a whole
database.
Do this now please.
And while you are doing it,
I'm just recording the attendance.
Bhargav Aravind.
I didn't.
Alliance.
Jordy.
Janice, Isabel.
Joshua Alid.
Muhammad.
No.
Not this one. OK, this one, Muhammad.
Muhammad Umer Navin venkat.
Hmm.
Who? Muhammad Najumuddin?
Ocean.
Shamili.
Soup.
Shiva.
Shinken.
Can.
Tritikaj.
Are you, are you? Sorry, so no.
Vaishnavi.
Total, yes.
Where? Where? Obite and Nizar.
Other missing people.
There are missing, non missing people.
Girish, Eman, Khalid, Mosin and Tran Khan.
OK.
So guys for next time try to load this
club data database.
Try to to train on PG exercises. OK,
we have not seen so many select queries,
but I think you can make your minds by
yourself.
As a beginning and of course we'll do
select queries next time,
but if you have practiced a bit before,
that's always better. Thank you guys.
See you when? Next week.
Mhm.
I have.
And it's like we need to get to your.
I'll do this. I'll do this.
One of the two without order.
That's just interesting.
Hey, thank you. Thank you.
OK.
Last like three months.
I'm not going to put it in this project.
That's why I.
Yeah.
Bonjour. I love this.
We have to do our queries in the terminal
or the workbench. It's on the workbench.
Thank you. You're welcome.
Hello.
It's it's insane. You know,
that's it's not.
That's right.
Hey, I would.
OK.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, exactly.
It's it's first.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Right.
So OK,
this is a list of it's you are fine.
So you can go to.
So I'll see the one to you know.
So of course,
can you feel the extension that you need
to?
So why not have to do anyone to change
the SEM SEM?
Is this like more courageous to mix?
I was going to ask you.
We see it's very.
Yeah, but.
It's done. I don't know.
Is it?
I guess.
It's.
The.
Yeah, it almost.
OK.
Because it's so.
You.
Yeah.
OK, yeah, I will see another.
That's good, right?
So.
Is that right?
OK.
So.